10.
For the law, having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things,
can never with those sacrifices, which they offered year by year continually,
make the comers their unto perfect. For then would they not have ceased to be offered,
because that the worshippers, once purged, should have had no more conscience of sins.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance, again, made of sins every year. For it is not
possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins. Wherefore,
when he cometh into the world, he sayeth, Sacrifice an offering thou wouldest not,
but a body hast thou prepared me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin
thou hast had no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me.
To do thy will, O God. Above when he said, Sacrifice an offering,
and burnt offerings, and offering for sin, thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein,
which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the
first, that he may establish the second, by the which will we are sanctified through the
offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest standeth daily ministering
and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man,
after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God,
from henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. For by one offering
he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us.
For after that he had said before, This is the covenant that I will make with them after those
days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them,
and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more.
Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin,
having therefore brethren boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,
by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil,
that is to say his flesh, and having an high priest over the house of God,
let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled
from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised,
and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking
the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another,
and so much the more as ye see the day approaching.
For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth,
there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful looking for of judgment,
and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
Of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden underfoot
the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified,
an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense,
saith the Lord, and again the Lord shall judge his people.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God,
but call to remembrance the former days, in which after ye were illuminated ye endured a great
fight of afflictions, partly whilst ye were made a gazing-stock both by reproaches and afflictions,
and partly whilst ye became companions of them that were so used.
For ye had compassion of me and my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods,
knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance.
Cast not away, therefore, your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward,
for ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise,
for yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry.
Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no place in the
pleasure in him. But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe
to the saving of the soul. Chapter 11
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen,
for by it the elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds
were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do
appear. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he
obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being
dead yet speaketh. By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death,
and was not found because God had translated him, for before his translation he had this testimony,
that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh
to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.
By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to
the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness
which is by faith. By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should
after receive for an inheritance, obeyed, and he went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith
he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with
Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise, for he looked for a city with
foundations whose builder and maker is God. Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to
conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful
who had promised, therefore sprang there even of one and him as good as dead, so many as the stars
of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by the seashore innumerable. These all died in faith,
not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them
and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country, and truly,
if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had
opportunity to have returned, but now they desire a better country, that is, and heavenly,
wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city.
By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac, and he that had received the promises
offered up his only begotten son, of whom it was said that an Isaac shall thy seed be called,
accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead from whence also he received him
a figure. By faith Isaac blessed Jacob, and Esau concerning things to come. By faith Jacob,
when he was dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel,
and gave commandment concerning his bones. By faith Moses, when he was born,
was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child,
and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. By faith Moses, when he was come to years,
refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction
with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season,
esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect
unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king,
for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith he kept the Passover, and the
sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. By faith they
passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians, a saying to do, were drowned.
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days. By faith
the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies
with peace. And what shall I more say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon,
and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthah, of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets,
who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises,
stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword.
Out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens.
Women received their dead raised to life again. And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance,
that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others had trial of cruel mockings,
and scourgings, yea moreover of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were
sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and
goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered
in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens, and caves of the earth. And these all,
having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise, God having provided
some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.
you